#Getting Started
Once you have downloaded and run the installation package on you system, it is best to test that the installation has been successful. To do this use the following steps:
  - Open up a Doctran Command Prompt, on Windows systems, or a terminal, on other systems.
  - Type `cd testing` to move into the testing folder
  - Then on Windows systems type `run_tests.bat` or `sh run_tests.sh` on other systems.

Doctran will then be run on a collection of simple source files. If documentation generation is completed successfully, then you will see the message "Documentation generation complete." outputted. You can view the documentation generated by searching in your home directory for the Docs directory.

If everything finished successfully you are now ready to start creating documentation for you own Fortran projects.

##Running Doctran
Doctran can only be run from the command line. The most basic syntax for running Doctran is 

    doctran source_files

where source_files is a space separated list of paths to your source files. This will output your documentation in the current directory.

Commonly, you would want your documentation to be placed within a new folder. To do this use the `--output_dir` option or its shorter `-o` option as shown below.

    doctran -o Docs source_files

The above will output documentation in the Docs directory and if required creating it.

The most general syntax for running Doctran is shown below.

    doctran [options] source_files

A full list of options is shown [here](command-line.md)