#System Requirements and Installation

##Hardware Requirements
The minimum hardware requirements for Doctran are as follows:

 * 1 GHz processor
 * 512 MB RAM

##Windows Systems

###Requirements
Doctran's only prerequisite is the the .Net Framework 4.

###Installation
The Windows package comes as a self-installing executable, making installation straightforward. Proceed by following the dialogues. You will be asked to download and install any missing prerequisites, and to add a shortcut to Doctran's command prompt. This is recommended, as loading the command prompt using one of these shortcuts is probably the quickest way of getting started using Doctran.

###Testing the Installation
Once you have downloaded and run the installation package on you system, it is best to test that the installation has been successful. A test project has been included to allow this.

  - Open up a Doctran command prompt.
  - Then, type `cd testing` to move into the testing folder.
  - Finally, type `run_tests.bat`.

Doctran will then be run on a collection of simple source files. If documentation generation is completed successfully, then you will see the message "Documentation generation complete." outputted. You can view the documentation generated by searching in your home directory for a Docs directory.

If everything finished successfully you are now ready to start creating documentation for you own Fortran projects.

##Linux and Mac OS X Installations

###Requirements
The only prerequisite required is Mono version 2.8, or above. This is the implementation of the .Net framework on non-Windows systems. Installation information can be found on Mono's [website](http://www.mono-project.com/download/)

###Installation
Installation on Unix based systems are distributed as a [makeself](https://github.com/megastep/makeself) package. To install place DoctranTrial.sh in the directory you would like to install Doctran within. Then, open a terminal within that directory and type
    
    sh ./DoctranTrial.sh
    
The install package will check and warn you about any missing prerequisites. You will be asked if you want to add a symbolic link from Doctran to your `/usr/bin/` folder. This will allow you to call Doctran from any folder. Confirming will require root access and you will be prompted to enter your root password.

###Testing the Installation
Once you have downloaded and run the installation package on you system, it is best to test that the installation has been successful. A test project has been included to allow this.

  - Open up a terminal.
  - Navigate to Doctran's installation directory.
  - Type `cd testing` to move into the testing folder.
  - Then, type `sh run_tests.sh`.

Doctran will then be run on a collection of simple source files. If documentation generation is completed successfully, then you will see the message "Documentation generation complete." outputted. You can view the documentation generated by searching in your home directory for a Docs directory.

If everything finished successfully you are now ready to start creating documentation for you own Fortran projects.